#Initial Cleaning of Police Brutality Data Set
1. The website through which we are obtaining our Police Violence data is ‘Fatal Encounters’, and so the first step was downloading the data
2. The dataset is divided into 26 columns with each case of police brutality given an unique ID number. We removed the unique ID number as this correlated to cases when all 52 states were included
3. To clean the data, we first duplicated the page and organised the sheet by state so that we could remove the cases not in our jurisdiction 
4. Given our focus is on police brutality regarding race, we then organised by race so we could isolate the cases that were against african american/black people 
    1. Some of the victim’s races were unknown and had been clarified with imputations - we kept those who were categorised as African American/black through imputations and removed the rest of the figures. This can cause further limitations to our data and were often cases that were 
5. We deleted the more specific aspects of location but kept the state and county to see if there were any specifc locations within and between states that evidenced more cases
    1. We followed a similar logic with the agency involved 
6. We also deleted columns relating to the nature of the incident, related media coverage, and the disposition of the officers involved 
7. Age and Gender were then removed 
8. Any cases outside of our time period were also removed
9. We also removed the relationship of cases with mental health 

##Limitations with data set found 
- public reports of cases of police brutality against civilians are notoriously under reported, especially with relation to race related incidents, therefore, most cases have been recorded from news articles 

#Move to combine data sets together (from Police Brutality Side) 
1. To create the sheet to analyse and compare our data sets, we then made a summary of the number of cases per state in the time period (overall and per year) 
2. Next to each column, we then took the population of each state per year to ensure that we were making relative comparisons - these were taken from the US census 
    1. We compared with total population and African American/black demographics  
    2. Using the census’ CPS tool (https://www.census.gov/cps/data/cpstablecreator.html), we refined the US population by state and demographic for each year and transferred this over to our sheet 
3. We had split the responsibility of each data set between people, so after making an additional category by each year for hate crime statistics, the two people working on cleaning the data sets came together and combined their findings 
